Let's talk about the final type of test automation tests now.
You may also hear the term end to end testing when it comes to automation tests.
So keep that in mind.
Automation tests.
Like I said before our UI tests that are always running inside a browser or a browser like environment
because they need to simulate user behavior in these environments such as clicking typing scrolling.
And finally they need to make sure that these scenarios actually work from the point of view of an end
user.
It's an important test right.
If your checkout process has a bug the best way to probably tested is to actually go through that checkout
flow and make sure that users can purchase whatever you're selling.
Now in an ideal world we have automation tests everywhere.
And if any of them fail we know that our web app doesn't work but it's important to remember that these
tests are the hardest to set up.
Imagine yourself creating an environment to run a test on different machines because users have different
computers different devices different phones different browser types.
Different versions.
How can you really test for that.
I mean you can but it's really really hard.
And this is why there's so many services that provide automation testing for you here's an example of
a few of them yep.
These are just a few of them such as Nightwatch web driver I O test cafe nightmare Cyprus.
The list really goes on automation testing is something you usually only find at bigger companies that
have the budget to really spend money on this because there's so many edge cases and they're so expensive
to implement that some developers go their whole career without ever writing an automation test.
But I still want to cover it because it is an important topic.
Here's a quick lowdown though if you just want to get started and not worry about cross browser and
have all the tools in one probably test Cafe is your best choice or if you want the one that has the
best documentation online.
Well web driver IO is really great.
And if you want really simple ways to automate user actions or do something cool like web scraping well
nightmare digest is pretty good.
Now the important thing with automation testing is that like the other name suggests and to a..
Testing you want to test the entire process of your UI and you might be thinking why do we get the machine
to do it.
Why can we just hire people to test for us and do automation testing.
And that happens many companies instead of writing these scripts simply hire people to do automation
testing and at some companies you have people like testers that do this for you and make sure that the
app works as intended and there's pros and cons to both of these.
And that's something that really depend on your company and your work environment.
The main thing I want to suggest though is that we want to create two different testing processes one
for a running unit tests and integration tests and a completely separate one to run these UI tests the
automation test.
That's because UI tests take a longer time especially if we worry about different browsers and different
devices and they also cost a lot more money to run them repeatedly.
So you would want to run unit tests and integration tests often probably in your terminal as your saving
your changes to your code in your local environment and maybe run UI tests once a day or a couple of
times a week or maybe just before you merge into the master branch before you release it to production.
For now though that's it for automation testing.
I'll see in the next one by.